Add reference doc for automatic CSRF protection in .NET 11 (#37230)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/security/csrf-protection.md

For most apps, no code changes are required: same-origin browser requests, safe HTTP methods, and non-browser clients (`curl`, server-to-server, mobile apps) all pass through unaffected. The middleware primarily affects apps that accept cross-origin write requests from a browser — for example, a Single Page App (SPA) hosted on a different origin than its API. Those scenarios need to either configure [CORS](xref:security/cors) to declare the trusted origin or opt the endpoint out.

This middleware is *additive* to the token-based antiforgery system. The two protections coexist and can both be active on the same endpoint. For a comparison of when each one applies, see [Interaction with token-based antiforgery](#interaction-with-token-based-antiforgery) later in this article.

## How it works

For every request, the middleware evaluates a short chain of rules and either allows the request to continue or short-circuits the response with HTTP `400 Bad Request`. The checks run in order, and the first match wins:

> 1. **Safe HTTP methods are always allowed.** `GET`, `HEAD`, `OPTIONS`, and `TRACE` requests pass through. This follows [RFC 7231 §4.2.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7231#section-4.2.1) and is consistent with the long-standing rule that endpoints shouldn't change state on `GET`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Safe HTTP methods are always allowed.** `GET`, `HEAD`, `OPTIONS`, and `TRACE` requests pass through. This follows [RFC 9110 §9.2.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9110#section-9.2.1) and is consistent with the long-standing rule that endpoints shouldn't change state on `GET`.
```
RFC 7231 was obsoleted by RFC 9110 (HTTP Semantics) in June 2022. The equivalent "safe methods" content is now in RFC 9110 §9.2.1. Consider if referencing the current specification would work better instead.

> 1. **`Sec-Fetch-Site: same-origin` or `Sec-Fetch-Site: none` is allowed.** Modern browsers send `Sec-Fetch-Site` on every request. `same-origin` covers normal in-app navigation and fetch, and `none` covers requests initiated directly by the user (typing a URL, using a bookmark). This is the hot path — most legitimate browser traffic exits here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **`Sec-Fetch-Site: same-origin` or `Sec-Fetch-Site: none` is allowed.** Modern browsers send `Sec-Fetch-Site` on every request. `same-origin` covers normal in-app navigation and fetch, and `none` covers requests initiated directly by the user (typing a URL, using a bookmark). This is the most common code path — most legitimate browser traffic exits here.
```
"Hot path" is jargon that will not translate very well when this is localized.

   .DisableAntiforgery();
```

**MVC controllers** — apply `[IgnoreAntiforgeryToken]` to the action or controller:

```csharp
[ApiController]
[Route("api/[controller]")]
[IgnoreAntiforgeryToken]
public class WebhookController : ControllerBase
{
    [HttpPost]
    public IActionResult Post([FromBody] WebhookPayload payload) => Accepted();
}
```

Either approach adds `IAntiforgeryMetadata { RequiresValidation = false }` to the endpoint, which the CSRF middleware honors by skipping validation.

> [!WARNING]
> Disabling CSRF protection on an endpoint should only be done when the endpoint isn't vulnerable to CSRF attacks — for example, endpoints that aren't callable from a browser, or that are secured with non-cookie authentication such as bearer tokens or API keys. Don't disable CSRF protection on browser-accessible endpoints that rely on cookies for authentication.

## Disabling globally

The middleware can be disabled across the entire app using the `DisableCsrfProtection` configuration key. This is an escape hatch — prefer per-endpoint opt-outs.

In `appsettings.json`:

```json
{
  "DisableCsrfProtection": true
}
```

Or as an environment variable:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```text
```
Keeping this block consistant with similar ones in the article.

## Troubleshooting

**Symptom:** Same-origin requests from a browser succeed, but cross-origin requests return `400` with no body.

**Cause:** The cross-origin request was rejected by the CSRF middleware. The endpoint code didn't run; this is the expected default behavior.

**Resolution:** Choose one of the following, depending on the scenario:

* If the calling origin is known and trusted, [allow it via CORS](#allowing-cross-origin-clients).
* If the endpoint isn't browser-reachable or uses non-cookie authentication, [opt it out](#opting-an-endpoint-out) with `.DisableAntiforgery()` or `[IgnoreAntiforgeryToken]`.
* If the entire app needs to opt out (for example, during a migration window), [disable globally](#disabling-globally).

**Diagnosing:** The middleware logs every denial at `Debug` level under the category `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Antiforgery.CsrfProtectionMiddleware` with event name `CsrfRequestDenied`. Enable `Debug` logging for that category in `appsettings.Development.json`:

```json
{
  "Logging": {
    "LogLevel": {
      "Microsoft.AspNetCore.Antiforgery.CsrfProtectionMiddleware": "Debug"
    }
  }
}
```

A denial then appears in the log as:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```text
```
Keeping this consistant with other similar blocks.
